= Git history =
Browser tests were migrated here from MobileFrontend.
For any git history prior to the migration, please review the git history of MobileFrontend (see https://gerrit.wikimedia.org/r/364325).

= Setup =
Include the LocalSettings.php in this folder into your MediaWiki LocalSettings.php.
Note including this in a production instance is not advised given it fiddles with permissions.

<pre>
include_once "$IP/skins/MinervaNeue/tests/browser/LocalSettings.php";
</pre>

Further tweaks may be necessary to run tests that are not tagged @integration:
* Ensure you have [//www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:ConfirmEdit Extension:ConfirmEdit] installed
** and setup with FancyCaptcha
* The VisualEditor, Cite, and Echo extensions should be installed to run the full suite of tests
* Create an account Selenium_newuser which has an edit count of 0
* Create an account and store the username in MEDIAWIKI_USER which has
** an edit count of greater than 0
** Ensure user has bureaucrat and admin rights (set via Special:UserRights)

==== Selenium tests ====

To run the Selenium tests you will have to install Ruby (for the exact
version see Gemfile), the latest versions of RubyGems and Firefox.

The easiest way to install Ruby on *nix is RVM (https://rvm.io/) and on
Windows RubyInstaller (http://rubyinstaller.org/).

Open terminal in tests/browser. Update RubyGems and install required
gems with:

  gem update --system
  gem install bundler
  bundle install

Environment variables MEDIAWIKI_USER and MEDIAWIKI_PASSWORD are required for
tests that require a logged in user. For local testing, create a test user on your local wiki
and export the user and password as the values for those variables.
For example:

  export MEDIAWIKI_USER=<username here> # Linux/Unix/Mac
  set MEDIAWIKI_USER=<username here> # Windows

  export MEDIAWIKI_PASSWORD=<password here> # Linux/Unix/Mac
  set MEDIAWIKI_PASSWORD=<password here> # Windows

In addition to this create another user which will be reserved for new uploads
"Selenium_newuser". The password for this user should be the same as
MEDIAWIKI_PASSWORD

Tests that use steps that create pages (create_page_api_steps.rb) need to set
the MEDIAWIKI_API_URL environment variable, e.g.
export MEDIAWIKI_API_URL=http://en.wikipedia.beta.wmflabs.org/w/api.php

Run the tests from the Minerva directory with:

  bundle exec cucumber tests/browser/features

If you want to run a single set of tests, go to the tests/browser directory and
call 'bundle exec cucumber' with the path to the test file. For example, to run
only the watchlist tests:

  bundle exec cucumber features/watchstar.feature

XML report (for Jenkins) is created at tests/browser/reports/junit.

Jenkins is hosted at https://wmf.ci.cloudbees.com/ and it drives
browsers at http://saucelabs.com/

For more information about running Selenium tests please see
https://github.com/wikimedia/mediawiki-selenium
